The Israeli military
is mobilizing
a record number of reservists,
some 360,000 as observers
are anticipating
a ground operation in Gaza.
The IDF is also amassing
tanks
and other military vehicles
near the border
with the Palestinian territory.
And Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has vowed retaliation on Hamas
like never before.
Keep in mind,
a ground operation could get complicated.
Gaza is very densely populated.
It puts civilians
in the middle of urban warfare
where Hamas can utilize narrow
city streets
and a complex network of tunnels
that can be used to move
fighters,
store weapons
and launch a series of attacks.
We want to discuss the situation
now with a military expert
who knows firsthand
the hazards of urban combat.
We're joined now by General Wesley Clark.
He was the supreme
allied commander of NATO's
during the Kosovo war.
General, thanks so much for sharing
part of your afternoon with us.
We saw this drone video of Gaza
earlier today.
This is the aftermath of aerial strikes
on the territory.
I'm wondering
what an Israeli ground operation
in this region is going to look like.
Well, first of all, I've
got to pick some targets
on the way
you would probably do
this is to section off Gaza,
maybe block by block,
figure out how to go
in, isolate
that area and work from the outside.
And you've got to
work against the tunnel network
and you've got to work against snipers
and other people on the high ground.
Now, you've created a lot of
rubble in the city right now.
So you've got to stay away
from those streets
if you're trying to move
are armored vehicles in there.
So that adds to the obstacles there.
It's going to be a very tough,
slow, painstaking operation.
Got to do it with maximum protection
for your own troops
because you have to understand that Hamas
this is not going to be
a surprise to Hamas.
They knew that
this is what they were going to get.
This is what they want.
They want to bring that
Israeli ground force in
and attack it from every direction
and put more casualties on to show
that it lacks credibility.
So Israel has to do
this, has to do it
well as to maintain
its military credibility.
Extremely difficult operation coming up.
General, you describe
the targeting of tunnels and areas
along that border.
There were civilians in Gaza that were
trying or rather were told to evacuate
a certain crossing
and this Rafah crossing right here.
And it's been complicated,
partly because it was targeted,
obviously.
You mentioned some of the complications
regarding a ground operation.
What about the fact that Hamas is holding
some 100 to 150 hostages,
potentially some American citizens?
How does all of that?
The difficulty of getting civilians out
and the fact that there are hostages
in Gaza.
Alter the calculus for the Israeli
Defense Forces?
Well, obviously,
you'll have teams
standing by
that could do an emergency hostage
rescue operation
if you could identify
where the hostages are.
If you could get entrance into that area
with sufficient force to rescue them.
But those capabilities will be there.
And we'll be monitoring
all the electronic
and visual intelligence
we've got
will be looking for other people, talking
and communicating people on the ground.
We'll do everything we can
to locate them.
But, you know, it's in Hamas interest
not to execute those hostages.
They need those hostages
as bargaining leverage at the end.
So you're going to hear a lot of threats.
You may have some outer control people
who do want to kill the hostages.
But my bet would be that
the Hamas leadership
will not want to give up those hostages
for the sake of
the families of those missing.
General, I hope you're right about that.
I do want to share with you
some new satellite images
we have of the Erez crossing complex.
So essentially
what we're looking at,
this right here is Gaza.
And this is Israel
This is part of the border.
And on it,
you can see craters in some areas
where Israel
launched retaliatory strikes.
What really stands out to me are breaches
in the border wall
where Hamas broke through.
And you can see them in these circles
I'm drawing.
This is where Hamas militants
were able to get into Israel.
It's striking partly
because of the scale
general of the attack.
They executed an attack
unprecedented in the history of Hamas
without Israeli intelligence
having a clue
that this was going to happen.
How is that possible?
It's possible by just
working with people you trust,
keeping the circle of knowledge small
and only talking face to face,
no electronic communications
nothing in writing that can go out.
If you do that,
you can maintain security.
But, you know, Hamas has been there for
for a long time.
We cannot underestimate
their sophistication.
It's a mistake
to think that they're just terrorists
out there waving AK 47.
This is a sophisticated military force
It's had training.
It's had assistance from the Iranians,
maybe some Russian equipment in there.
For all we know,
they can monitor communications.
They have cyber
they have anti-aircraft missiles.
They have anti-tank missiles.
Got a lot of stuff buried underground.
Are they prepared for this
for a long time?
So I think, you know,
we have to anticipate
this is not like going
when the United States
Army raced through Baghdad
in 2003, shattered the Iraqi guards
and the people in Iraq were like,
oh, yeah, well, some of us liked him.
Some of us didn't.
Let's see what happens now.
That's not what this is.
This is a force for Syria
that's been prepared.
How many Hamas fighters are there?
15,000. 20,000.
We saw maybe 2000 committed
in this operation.
So we've got
lots of forces left behind and ready
and no doubt
willing to sacrifice their lives
to take Israelis with them.
So this is going to be a tough fight.
And at the same time, of course,
we've got the northern border
to worry about
the president's
talk about maybe
sending another carrier battle group in
And don't forget,
the North
Koreans are now shipping
artillery and ammunition
by rail to the Russians
to put the pressure on Ukraine.
We can never neglect that
because that fight in Ukraine
is very much in America's interest.
They're fighting our battle.
They're against Russian aggression.